          Using the openModeller examples:
                  Tim Sutton 2005
-----------------------------------------------------

This directory contains some simple examples that demonstrate 
how various of the om_* command line tools are used. They use
the simplest case scenario of a bioclim model with a single
environmental layer - subsequently the models produced 
themselves are not particularly robust or interesting. Rather
the idea is that you examine the configuration files provided
in order to see how to prepare your own models.

---

1) om_console

om_console takes a simple text file as listed in request.txt

e.g.

om_console request.txt

---

2) om_viewer

If you have built with X11 support you can use the om_viewer 
program to visualise the distribution map generated by 
openModeller:

e.g.

om_viewer -r request.txt

Or visualise the maps that were used to build the model:

e.g.

om_viewer request.txt

---

3) om_niche

If you have built with X11 support, and if your experiment has only 
two input layers, you can use the om_niche program to visualise the 
model as a graphic showing probabilities in the environmental space.

e.g.

om_niche request.txt

---

4) om_sampledump

When openmodeller creates a model, it fetches the voxel (3d pixel)
through each of the climate layers. This is known as a sample. The
sample at each presence (or absence) point can be obtained using 
the om_sampledump application. This is useful if you want to under-
stand the actual data being used to build the model.

e.g.

om_sampledump request.txt

---

5) om_create

This program uses the newer xml format for describing how a model
should be built. The output is another xml file which contains
the serialised model. No projection (mapping) of the model is 
carried out (see om_project below). This is useful if you wish
to create a model and project it into numerous climate scenarios.
om_console can produce a simlar result using the 'Output model'
instruction in the request file. om_create is a wholly xml 
approach to this.

e.g. (furcata-model.xml is the output file)

om_create bioclim-param.xml furcata-model.xml 

---

6) om_project

This program is used to project a serialised model into an 
environment scenario. The output will be an image showing 
a probability surface.

The environment.xml is provided in the examples dir. Note
that there must be a match between each layer used to originally
build the model and each layer in the projection environment:

 Create Model           Project Model
 ------------------------------------
 temp             |     temp
 rainfall         |     rainfall
 etc              |     etc

e.g.

om_project furcata-model.xml environment.xml furcata.tif
